so you're diving in the atlantic ocean
and suddenly you realize you haven't
seen anyone else around for a while
you come up to the surface and your
boat's gone no
in the distance you can see an ocean boy
you can climb onto
you scramble to safety and look out at
the open ocean around you
there's nothing but blue in every
direction except
something large moving in the water
grabs your attention
a dorsal fin breaks to the surface
it's all over it's a great big
wait a minute it just rolled onto its
side
oh it's not a shark at all you just
encountered the heaviest bonefish in the
world the sunfish
it can grow up to 14 feet long and it
lives deep down in the ocean
what you're seeing is the sunfish
surfacing some people call it the mola
mola
it mostly dines on jellyfish and can
dive down anywhere from 600 to 2600 feet
it's not sunbathing or anything it's
letting sea birds eat any little bugs
that try to get away with a free ride
a delicious meal i'm sure yeah
the sunfish is so large and heavy it's
extremely difficult for scientists to
study it
especially when it swims down so deep
the mola mola just like the jellyfish is
not even a fish
it's a plankton it's kind of a laid-back
creature that drifts with the current
rather than swimming against it like
normal fish
the sheepshead fish lives around the
gulf of mexico
and off the west atlantic it lives quite
far down from the surface
and i hope it stays down there its teeth
help snag its favorite food shellfish
while it may look scary at first the
sheepshead fish is a regular at fish
markets and some restaurants
if you're game to try it i know i
wouldn't eat anything with teeth that
look like mine
the world's most misunderstood fish also
happens to look like the saddest
the blob fish lives deep down off the
coast of
australia and new zealand it's
considered one of the strangest
creatures ever caught
and for good reason this fish just isn't
made for the surface
it looks like a melting pile of goo with
a frown
one thing we know about deep sea fish is
that we don't know anything about what
really goes on down there so you make it
to dry land
and you hear a deep grumbling sound
coming from the muddy sand nearby
some strange eel-like animals are moving
around
they might be cute but picking one up
might be a big mistake
they might mistake your finger for a
nice mid-afternoon
snack the giant mud skipper lives
throughout southeast asia
and surprisingly can outrun a human if
needed for a little while at least
they love muddy water so they mostly
hang out near shorelines
what makes these fish unique is that
they spend most of their time
out of the water although they only grow
to about one foot long
they can jump about two feet
the walking trees of the amazon are one
of the biggest secrets of the forest
you head over there these trees aren't
walking around with legs like you or me
but they're still able to move about 60
feet every year or two
what happens is that new roots search
for sunlight
while the old roots leave the soil one
root in front of the other
their movements are incredibly slow you
won't be able to sit there and
watch them strut their stuff but if
you've got nothing but time on your
hands
you'll notice the trees shifting week by
week
trying to find the best possible life
you're walking in the west african
jungle whistling away
you pick up a small stick to get rid of
some spider webs in your path
it's all good until you realize that
stick is tickling your hand
and bending lucky for you you just
picked up a giant african millipede
they grow to about a foot long so they
kind of look like a small snake
that tickling you feel is their 250 legs
wiggling around these millipedes are
part of the same family as crabs and
spiders
but they only really eat plants and
fallen leaves you
pop over to nevada for a nice walk hey
why not
it's way too hot so you decide to jump
into that nice pool of water you just
found
the only problem this place is way off
limits
and swimming definitely isn't allowed
why
because of what could be the rarest fish
in the world the pupfish
they only grow about an inch long and
they only live here
they're precious and protected fish so
read the signs
and don't even think about going
swimming anywhere near them
the pupfish's backyard pool has another
claim to fame
it's an earthquake indicator when
there's an earthquake say in indonesia
japan or china
waves start popping up right there in
nevada
you wouldn't be wrong for wanting to get
your eyes checked if you saw this little
guy sniffing around
the star-nosed mole is one of the
weirdest creatures anywhere
each one of the feelers on its nose help
the almost blind mole
find its food its nose is so sensitive
it can feel five times more than a human
hand
that's not all star-nosed moles are also
the world's fastest eaters
wow faster than me they can even smell
around for food underwater
is there anything this mole can't do
tardigrades or as they're sometimes
called water bears are one of the most
interesting creatures on the planet and
also the craziest
these microscopic animals are the
toughest creatures on earth
how tough you ask well you can find them
in the deepest parts of the ocean
high up on mountain tops in volcanoes
rainforests
and even antarctica they're also the
first animals to survive exposure to
outer space
they can sleep for thousands of years
without any food or water
and then get up and walk it off like it
was nothing
the water bear could rule the planet if
only
it was a little bigger the blue gauchus
looks something like out of a sci-fi
movie but no
this little animal is the weird uncle of
the sea slug
family and you definitely don't want to
pick it up
it blends perfectly into the ocean waves
as it floats on the surface
the glaucus's bright shade of blue helps
it melt into its background
but that's not what makes it special its
sting is quite potent and not very
pleasant
but the glaucus doesn't even produce its
own venom it just steals it off of
other venomous water creatures not bad
for something that's only an inch long
how about a delicious coconut you need
to regroup after seeing so many weird
animals
luckily a coconut just fell from that
tree although
something else fell as well it seems
like this coconut's already got an
owner coconut crabs find coconuts on the
floor
and rip off that hairy brown stuff
that's all over them
then they grab the coconut with a claw
and climb up a tree
from there they chuck it down to the
ground to open it up
so the crabs up there and its lunch is
down on the ground
no problem coconut crabs love to jump
from trees
and can land unharmed from a 15-foot
fall
this is one crab you wouldn't want to
try to catch with your hands
the coconut crab's claw is the strongest
of all crustaceans
if it can bust through a coconut hmm
yeah
by now you've seen your share of crazy
but no one is prepared
for the hag fish this fish looks like an
eel
but with one extra superpower slime
less than a teaspoon of slime when
combined with water
can multiply up to ten thousand times
once the hagfish oozes out its slime
nothing can get close
and what if some of the slime gets in
its own nose it learned to sneeze it out
they're also boneless and made entirely
out of cartilage
last one for today introducing the
purple frog
not a very exciting name i know the
purple frog is a strange looking frog
species
it looks like it just ate way too much
and it's got a nose like no other
what makes this creature even stranger
is that it lives
underground and i don't mean just for a
short while
the purple frog only comes out of its
hole for two weeks a year
it mainly eats termites it finds
underground so
why would it bother coming up to the
surface at all